# Unit 1 Homework Assignment: Coinbase

```
                      
    Coinbase, a cryptocurrency platform that allows users to access the larger crypto economy, was launched in 2012 by Brian Armstrong and Fred Ehrsam with the goal of allowing the world to have more economic freedom. Coinbase was founded on the principle that anyone, everywhere, should be able to safely access Bitcoin. It started out with a service that allowed users to buy and sell bitcoins using a connected bank account as a payment mechanism. Since then, it has grown to supply the crypto economy with end-to-end financial infrastructure and technology. The company had grown into the world's largest cryptocurrency exchange by volume by early 2021, serving as a platform for multiple digital currencies and offering a variety of products for retail and institutional cryptocurrency investors.

    Battery compared Coinbase's rise and market supremacy to Netscape's in the early days of the Internet, noting that Netscape was essential in establishing a new Internet economy. In 2017, Battery invested in Coinbase's $100 million Series D financing. Coinbase was the entryway into this new world, and the investment was part of our premise that crypto/blockchain constituted the next great platform change for technological application development.

    Coinbase claims to have 68 million verified users, 9,000 institutions, and 160,000 ecosystem partners in over 100 countries that trust Coinbase to invest, spend, save, earn, and utilize crypto in an easy and safe manner. By portraying itself as a safe harbor among crypto asset exchanges, Coinbase has grown in popularity and become the on-ramp for mainstream crypto investors. Unlike many of its rivals, the firm has never been hacked. Coinbase has also actively sought compliance with current rules and law enforcement, placing it on the right side of the law and providing another significant asset in a sector that is still in need of regulatory guidance.

    Coinbase was able to raise over $540 million in equity funding from some of the world's most well-known venture capital firms because of this, propelling the company into the unicorn club. In April 2021, the firm created history by becoming the world's first crypto corporation to go public. Coinbase went public on Nasdaq, with a direct listing price of $350 per share, $100 more than the specified reference price. During its first public offering, its market capitalization soared to nearly $112 billion, but it eventually settled at around $86 billion. The company's $75 million Series C in January 2015 included large financial organizations such as the NYSE and USAA.

    Coinbase features plenty of developer-friendly APIs, tools, infrastructure platforms, and security services. These tools are designed to make it easier for developers to interact with Coinbase clients, integrate cryptocurrencies, and construct crypto companies, among other things. Another handy tool is Coinbase Pro's trading API. It may be used by developers to assist professional traders in placing orders and accessing market data. Coinbase Card is a Visa debit card that allows users to spend crypto assets housed in a Coinbase account as well as make ATM withdrawals. Customers may get up to 4% back in bitcoin rewards for their purchases. Coinbase Analytics is a tool that aids with regulatory compliance. This tool may be used by financial institutions, government authorities, and crypto companies to investigate fraudulent activity and correlate crypto transactions to real-world organizations. The software enables businesses to track money across several transactions and assess risk at a large scale. Coinbase users are enthusiastic about a wide range of things. Surojit Chatterjee, the company's chief product officer, claims that "about 30% of our consumers are utilizing more than one product." Coinbase is used by people to send, receive, borrow, lend, and save money."

    Coinbase's message shift has been validated by astounding user growth. According to the company's second-quarter data, it had 8.8 million monthly transaction customers, up from 1.5 million a year before. Coinbase has approximately $180 billion in crypto assets and 68 million verified users. Coinbase had a revenue of over $2 billion and a net profit of $1.6 billion in the quarter ending June 30, 2021. Brian Armstrong, the CEO of Coinbase, has revealed a five-year roadmap for the firm:
-Users will be able to make money by staking, and the firm hopes to build technologies that allow businesses to accept crypto. 
-Through Coinbase Ventures, the business will assist its consumers in discovering new crypto applications and will give money for initiatives. In addition, non-crypto companies will be able to use Coinbase's crypto infrastructure to get access to the crypto economy.

    Several fiat-crypto asset exchanges compete directly with Coinbase and Coinbase Pro. Coinbase's primary competitors include Bitfinex, Bitstamp, Kraken, and bitFlyer, while there are more, including traditional brokerages like Robinhood. The business should try to introduce additional cryptocurrencies to its platform. So, professional traders will be able to use Coinbase's advanced trading tools, which are identical to those used in traditional markets. This would benefit Coinbase because institutions of various sizes will be able to invest in crypto markets thanks to this institutional infrastructure.

    Ultimately, Bitcoin and other major crypto currencies are getting closer to mainstream adoption, but not as quickly as crypto enthusiasts would want. Coinbase is basically at the whims of speculators looking for a fast buck until a legitimate purpose for blockchain technology is implemented, tested, and used. Coinbase is fully aware of its present and future positions and is working hard to develop solutions that will allow it to ride this market for as long as possible. 

Sources:
https://www.coinbase.com
https://www.investopedia.com
https://www.cbinsights.com